‎By the time the apostle Peter
‎wrote the words of today’s text,
‎individuals who were Jews,
‎proselytes, Samaritans,
‎and Gentiles had been brought
‎into the Christian congregation
‎as God’s people,
‎the spiritual Israel of God.
‎In the verse before today’s text,
‎Peter outlined what their mission was.
‎Let’s open
to 1 Peter chapter 2 and read that.
‎It’s in verses 9 and 10 of 1 Peter 2.
‎He wrote:
‎“But you are ‘a chosen race,
a royal priesthood,
‎“‘a holy nation,
a people for special possession,
‎“that you should declare abroad
the excellencies’
‎“of the One who called you
out of darkness into his wonderful light.
‎“For you were once not a people,
‎but now you are God’s people.”
‎And, of course, this refers
to the spirit-anointed members
‎of the congregation
who would be responsible
‎for glorifying Jehovah’s name
as his Witnesses.
‎And this harmonizes
with what Peter had said years earlier
‎in the first-century governing body meeting,
‎as reported in Acts chapter 15.
‎So let’s turn there, Acts 15,
‎and we will begin with verse 14.
‎It says:
“Symeon has related thoroughly how God
‎“for the first time
turned his attention to the nations
‎“to take out of them a people for his name.
‎“And with this the words
of the Prophets agree,
‎“just as it is written:
‎“‘After these things
I will return and raise up again
‎“‘the tent of David that is fallen down;
‎“‘I will rebuild its ruins and restore it,
‎“‘so that the men who remain
may earnestly seek Jehovah,
‎“‘together with people of all the nations,
‎“‘people who are called by my name,
‎says Jehovah, who is doing these things.’”
‎Now, what about the rest of us
‎who are not anointed Christians
‎but who call ourselves Jehovah’s Witnesses?
‎Are we also God’s people?
‎Well, most certainly!
‎And what a proud honor it is for us
‎to bear the name of the only true God.
‎But with that name comes responsibility,
‎one that other religious groups
do not want to take on.
‎You see, we are under obligation
‎to bear witness to Jehovah,
‎to tell the truth about him,
‎and to expose false teachings
‎that misrepresent Jehovah.
‎And a classic example
of an unscriptural dogma
‎that God’s people have exposed is the Trinity,
‎which reminds me of another hoax
‎that fooled many people
who should have known better.
‎It’s the true story
about a man named van Meegeren,
‎a Dutch artist, born in 1889,
‎who perpetrated what may have been
‎the most sensational art hoax of all time.
‎You see, he never won the critical acclaim
‎that he thought he was due as an artist.
‎So to get back at the art critics,
‎he decided to demonstrate his talent
‎by producing a painting that would fool them all,
‎and he set out to imitate
‎the famous 17th-century Dutch impressionist,
‎Johannes Vermeer.
‎Well, van Meegeren spent 4 years figuring out
‎how to make
a new painting look 300 years old.
‎The canvas was the easy part.
‎He just took a lesser-known painting
‎from the 17th century
and removed the picture.
‎His biggest problem was getting oil paint
‎to harden thoroughly,
which usually takes 50 years.
‎He solved it
by mixing his pigments with a synthetic resin
‎instead of oil and then baking the canvas.
‎Well, van Meegeren produced six paintings
‎that were passed off as Vermeers.
‎His greatest sold in 1937.
‎It was entitled
Christ and the Disciples at Emmaus.
‎The most authoritative art historian of the day
‎said it was a genuine Vermeer masterpiece,
‎untouched, on the original canvas,
‎and that it had no restoration done to it.
‎But in reality, it was a fake.
‎The critic’s opinion was taken
as gospel in the art world,
‎so much so that this critic
had been nicknamed “The Pope.”
‎Eventually, though,
a chemical analysis proved
‎that the paint contained
an ingredient that had not been discovered
‎until two centuries after Vermeer died,
‎and that’s what exposed
van Meegeren as a fraud.
‎Well, something similar
went on during the apostasy
‎that took place
after the death of the apostles.
‎Less than 300 years
after the Bible was completed,
‎a Trinitarian added to 1 John 5:7 the words
‎“in heaven, the Father,
the Word, and the Holy Ghost:
‎and these three are one.”
‎However, this addition does not appear
‎in the oldest Greek manuscripts,
‎proving it’s a fake;
it’s a corruption of God’s Word.
‎And yet for centuries,
the churches propagated the Trinity doctrine.
‎As recently as the 19th century,
‎almost all Bible translations
‎had this spurious addition.
‎As late as 1897, Pope Leo XIII
‎upheld the corrupted text
‎of the Latin Vulgate.
‎Interestingly, the New Catholic Encyclopedia
‎comments on this
and says: “The Trinitarian dogma
‎“is in the last analysis
a late 4th century invention.
‎“Among the Apostolic Fathers,
‎“there had been nothing
even remotely approaching
‎such a mentality or perspective.”
‎Well, Jehovah’s anointed Witnesses
‎firmly rejected Christendom’s Trinity dogma.
‎In 1915,
The Watch Tower exposed the foolishness
‎of teaching a doctrine
that contradicts the Bible.
‎The Watch Tower said:
‎“In what a jumble of contradictions
‎“and confusion
do they find themselves who say
‎“that Jesus and the Father are one God!
‎“This would involve the idea
‎“that our Lord Jesus acted
the hypocrite when on earth
‎“and only pretended
to address God in prayer,
‎“when He Himself was the same God. . . .
‎“The Father has always been immortal,
hence could not die.
‎“How then, could Jesus have died? . . .
‎“The Scriptures declare,
however, that He did die. . . .
‎“If they admit that Jesus really died,
they take the other horn of the dilemma;
‎“for believing that their three Gods
‎“are all one person as many do,
‎“when Jesus died
they must all three have died.
‎“If they all died, who raised them to life?
‎“How foolish all this sounds! . . .
‎“Shall we thus contradict the Apostles
and Prophets and Jesus Himself,
‎“and ignore reason
and common sense, in order to hold
‎“to a dogma handed to us
from the dark, superstitious past,
‎“by a corrupt apostate Church?
‎Nay!” says The Watch Tower.
‎Well, Jehovah’s people
continue to uphold the excellencies
‎ of the only true God.
‎Whether in ancient times,
as with the natural Israelites
‎or in modern times, as with spiritual Israel,
‎Jehovah’s words through Isaiah are still true.
‎Look at it at Isaiah 43:21.
‎Of course,
we know in Isaiah chapter 43
‎Jehovah declares:
“You are my witnesses.”
‎And in verse 21 he says:
‎“The people whom I formed for myself
‎so that they might declare my praise.”
‎And the effort that Jehovah’s Witnesses​
‎—God’s people​—
have put forth to expose
‎ Bible teachings that are false,
‎to teach the truth about Jehovah,
‎and to sanctify God’s name
has taken on proportions
‎never attained by any other religious group.
‎And Jehovah takes notice of that.
‎Look at Malachi the 3rd chapter.
‎Malachi chapter 3,
‎beginning with verse 16.
‎Malachi 3:​16:
‎“At that time those
who feared Jehovah spoke with one another,
‎“each one with his companion,
‎“and Jehovah kept paying
attention and listening.
‎“And a book of remembrance
was written before him
‎“for those fearing Jehovah
and for those meditating on
‎“[or the footnote says,
possibly, “treasuring”] his name.
‎“‘And they will be mine,’
says Jehovah of armies,
‎‘in the day when I produce
a special property.’”
‎So Jehovah truly does love those
‎who fear him and treasure his name,
‎making them truly God’s people.